>> Ifill: TARGET CONFIRMED TODAY
40 MILLION CREDIT AND DEBIT
CARDS HAVE BEEN COMPROMISED THIS
HOLIDAY SHOPPING SEASON.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, IN A
SURPRISE MOVE, RUSSIA'S
PRESIDENT PUTIN PROMISED TO
PARDON THE COUNTRY'S MOST FAMOUS
PRISONER.
>> Ifill: PLUS, HE'S YOUNG,
ERRATIC AND MYSTERIOUS.
NORTH KOREA'S LEADER STOKES
FEARS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> INSTABILITY IN NORTH KOREA
WOULD BE PROBABLY ONE OF
AMERICA'S AND THE REGION'S WORST
NIGHTMARES.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A SECURITY BREACH
AT THE HEIGHT OF THE HOLIDAY
SEASON HAS EXPOSED MILLIONS OF
TARGET SHOPPERS TO DATA THEFT.
THE RETAIL CHAIN SAID TODAY THAT
SOME 40 MILLION CREDIT AND DEBIT
CARD ACCOUNTS MAY BE AFFECTED.
IT URGED CARDHOLDERS TO MONITOR
THEIR STATEMENTS FOR SUSPICIOUS
CHARGES.
WE'LL GET THE DETAILS AND
EXPLORE THE RISKS RIGHT AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE U.S. ECONOMY TURNED IN SOME
LACKLUSTER NUMBERS TODAY.
HOME SALES FELL IN NOVEMBER FOR
THE THIRD STRAIGHT MONTH.
AND FIRST-TIME CLAIMS FOR
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS LAST WEEK
WERE THE HIGHEST SINCE MARCH.
ON WALL STREET, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED 11
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 16,179.
NASDAQ FELL 11.92 AT 4058.14
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 12 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,058.
FROM MOSCOW TODAY, A SURISERP
ANNOUNCEMENT.
AFTER A LENGTHY NEWS CONFERENCE,
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
ANNOUNCED HE'LL PARDON THE MAN
WHO WAS ONCE HIS LEADING
OPPONENT.
OIL TYCOON MIKHAIL KHORKOODVSKY
HAS BEEN JAILED ON CORRUPTION
CHARGES FOR MORE THAN A DECADE.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT ON THE
PUTIN NEWS CONFERENCE AND
REACTION LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE HAD HIS
OWN SESSION WITH REPORTERS TODAY
AND DEFIED HIS OPPONENTS AT HOME
AND ABROAD.
VICTOR YANUKOVICH ANNOUNCED
PLANS FOR PARTIALLY JOINING AN
ECONOMIC UNION LED BY RUSSIA,
DESPITE WEEKS OF PROTESTS
AGAINST THE MOVE.
IN A TELEVISED INTERVIEW, HE
ALSO CRITICIZED WESTERN
OFFICIALS WHO'VE VISITED KIEV
AND SUPPORTED THE PROTESTS.
>> ( translated ): IT IS VERY
IMPORTANT THAT NO OTHER
COUNTRIES INTERFERE IN OUR
INTERNAL QUESTIONS AND THAT THEY
DO NOT CONSIDER THAT THEY ARE
THE MASTERS HERE, ANYWHERE, ON
THIS SQUARE OR ANYWHERE ELSE.
I AM CATEGORICALLY AGAINST
ANYBODY COMING AND TEACHING US
HOW TO LIVE HERE.
>> Woodruff: YANUKOVICH
CHALLENGED THOSE LEADING THE
PROTESTS TO "WAIT FOR ELECTIONS"
IF THEY WANT TO CHANGE UKRAINE'S
GOVERNMENT.
SECURITY FORCES IN EGYPT TODAY
INTENSIFD THIEEIR CRACKDOWN ON
KEY FIGURES IN THE ARAB SPRING
UPRISING.
MOHAMMED ADEL LED A YOUTH
MOVEMENT IN THE DRIVE TO OUST
THEN-PRESIDENT HOSNI MUBARAK.
HE WAS ARRESTED THIS MORNING.
MEANWHILE, TWO OF MUBARAK'S SONS
WERE ACQUITTED ON CORRUPTION
CHARGES.
A FORMER PRIME MINISTER WAS
CLEARED, AS WELL.
A JURY IN LONDON HAS CONVICTED
TWO MEN IN THE SENSATIONAL,
DAYLIGHT MURDER OF AN OFF-DUTY
BRITISH SOLDIER.
THE TWO WERE SELF-DECLARED
SOLDIERS OF ALLAH, INSPIRED BY
AL QAEDA.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM LUCY
MANNING OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
>> THE BRITISH SOLDIER WHO
HAD GONE TO WAR FOR HIS
COUNTRY, THE MAN WHO
MURDERED HIM, WHO CALLED
THEMSELVES SOLDIERS OF ALLAH
WHO FOUGHT THEIR WORE ON
THE-- WAR ON THE STREETS.
THE SHOCKING PICTURES FROM
THAT DAY, A SCENE SO ODE AS
A WOMAN WALKS BY WITH HER
SHOPPING, T SOYE
UNBELIEVABLE.
MICHAEL ADEBOLAJO, BLOOD ON
HIS HANDS, HATRED FROM HIS
MOUTH.
>> THE REASON WE KILLED THIS
MAN TODAY IS BECAUSE MUSLIMS
ARE DYING DALEY BY BRITISH
SOLDIERS.
AND THIS BRITISH SOLDIER IS
AN EYE FOR AN EYE AN TOOTH
FOR A TOOTH.
>> Reporter: MOMENTS EARLIER
THEY HAD BEEN WAITING FOR A
SOLDIER TO KILL.
THAT SOLDIER ON HIS FINAL
WALK WAS LEE RIGBY.
IN HIS HELP FOR HEROES TOP,
HE WALKED DOWN THE ROAD
OUTSIDE THE BARACKS AND AS
THEY SPOTTED HIM, THEY
ACCELERATED AND HIT HIM.
IT WASN'T ENOUGH FOR THEM
JUST TO KNOCK LEE RIGBY
OVER.
THE ACTUAL DETAILS ARE TOO
GRAPHIC, BUT IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE DAY THEY REPEATEDLY
STABSED AND SLASHED LEE
RIGBY'S NECK AND THAT STILL
WASN'T ENOUGH.
THEY THEN DRAGGED HIS BODY
INTO THE ROAD.
THEY WANTED MARTYRDOM TO GO
TO PARADISE.
INSTEAD THEY'LL GO TO JAIL.
LEE RIGBY'S FAMILY DIGNIFIED
YET CLEARLY STILL
TRAUMATIZED, SHED MORE TEARS
IN COURT AS THEY HEARD THE
WORDS GUILTY.
>> THIS HAS BEEN THE
TOUGHEST TIME OF OUR LIVES.
NO ONE SHOULD HAVE TO GO
THROUGH WHAT WE'VE BEEN
THROUGH AS A FAMILY.
WE ARE SATISFIED THAT
JUSTICE HAS BEEN DONE.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY, NO AMOUNT
OF JUSTICE WILL BRING LEE
BACK.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE ARE
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE MURDERER,
BOTH HAD ALREADY BEEN IN
PRISON AND THEY WERE KNOWN
TO THEOLIC PE FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS.
MICHAEL ADEBOLAJO TAKING
CENTER STAGE AT AN ISLAMIST
DEMONSTRATION.
>> AND HE CLAIMED TO HAVE
BEEN APPROACHED BY MI-5 AS
RECENTLY AS THIS YEAR, SO
WERE THEY MISSED, PARLIAMENT
IS NOW INVESTIGATING.
PART A LONDON THEATRE
COLLAPSED EVENING DURING A
PERFORMANCE INJURING MORE
THAN 80 PEOPLE.
7 OF THE INJURED WERE
SERIOUSLY HURT.
SEVERAL HAD TO BE RESCUED
FROM BENEATH PILES OF
PLASTER, WOOD AND DUST.
THERE WAS NO WORD ON THE
CAUSE.
IN IRAQ SHIITE
IN IRAQ, SHIITE PILGRIMS WERE
AGAIN THE TARGET OF SUICIDE
BOMBERS TODAY, AND AT LEAST 36
WERE KILLED.
THE ATTACKS CAME AS THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE MADE THEIR WAY TO THE
SHIITE CITY OF KARBALA FOR A
MAJOR MUSLIM HOLIDAY.
AT LEAST THREE BOMBERS STRUCK AT
DIFFERENT POINTS ALONG THE
ROUTE.
AL QAEDA AND SUNNI MUSLIM
INSURGENTS OFTEN TARGET SHIITES
ON THE PILGRIMAGE.
U.N. INVESTIGATORS SAY THE
SYRIAN MILITARY AND ITS ALLIES
ARE SYSTEMATICALLY SEIZING
PEOPLE WHO ARE NEVER HEARD FROM
AGAIN.
A REPORT TODAY SAID THOUSANDS
HAVE BEEN TAKEN AWAY.
SEPARATELY, AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL REPORTED REBELS
LINKED TO AL QAEDA HAVE TORTURED
AND KILLED PEOPLE AT SECRET
PRISONS IN NORTHERN SYRIA.
PRESIDENT OBAMA COMMUTED THE
SENTENCES OF EIGHT CONVICTED
DRUG OFFENDERS TODAY.
IN A WRITTEN STATEMENT, HE SAID
THEIR PRISON TERMS WERE UNDULY
LONG UNDER A LAW THAT TREATED
CRACK COCAINE MORE HARSHLY THAN
POWDER COCAINE.
A MORE RECENT LAW HAS REDUCED
THE DISPARITY.
BEFORE TODAY, THE PRESIDENT
COMMUTED JUST ONE SENTENCE IN
HIS FIVE YEARS IN OFFICE.
NEW MEXICO IS NOW THE 17th STATE
TO LEGALIZE GAY MARRIAGE.
THE STATE SUPREME COURT RULED
TODAY IT IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL TO
BAR SAME-SEX UNIONS.
NEW MEXICO LAW NEVER DIRECTLY
ADDRESSED THE ISSUE, BUT, UNTIL
RECENTLY, COUNTY CLERKS
HISTORICALLY DENIED MARRIAGE
LICENSES TO GAYS AND LESBIANS.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR: A
MASSIVE DATA BREACH AT A MAJOR
AMERICAN RETAILER; SURPRISE
LENIENCY FOR DISSIDENTS IN
RUSSIA; WHAT THE BUDGET DEAL
MEANS FOR LIFE OUTSIDE OF
WASHINGTON; NORTH KOREA'S LEADER
TIGHTENS HIS GRIP ON POWER; AND
PUTTING A VALUE ON PRICELESS ART
IN A BANKRUPT DETROIT.
>> Ifill: THE RETAIL CHAIN
TARGET CONFIRMED THAT HACKERS
BREACHED TENS OF MILLIONS OF
CREDIT CARD AND DEBIT ACCOUNTS
AT THE HEIGHT OF THE SHOPPING
SEASON, JUST BEFORE THANKSGIVING
AND RIGHT UP UNTIL DECEMBER 15.
THE THEFT OCCURRED WHEN PEOPLE
SWIPED THEIR CARDS IN STORE, NOT
ONLINE.
THE RETAILER CONFIRMED THAT
CUSTOMERS' NAMES, CREDIT CARD
AND DEBIT CARD NUMBERS AND
SECURITY CODES WERE STOLEN.
IT'S THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
MAJOR BREACHES IN RECENT YEARS.
WE EXPLORE THEM WITH TWO
EXPERTS: STEVE SURDU IS WITH
MANDIANT, A CYBERSECURITY FIRM;
HOW DID 40 MILLION ACCOUNTS
GET COMPROMISED?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW THE
DETAILS AT THIS POINT IN
TIME.
THEY'RE STILL INVESTIGATING
AM BUT OBVIOUSLY INFORMATION
HAD TO BE SIPHONNED OFF FROM
THE ORGANIZATION.
ATTACKERS ALMOST CERTAINLY
CAME IN FROM OUTSIDE, PUT
SOFTWARE IF PLACE THAT
ALLOWED THEM TO AGGREGATE
THE INFORMATION OVER TIME
AND THEN REMOVE IT SO THEY
COULD USE IT.
>> Ifill: PUT SOFTWARE IN
PLACE IN EACH INDIVIDUAL
STORE OR SOME CENTRAL
SERVER?
>> THAT'S ALSO UNKNOWN.
EITHER ONE IS POSSIBLE.
IN ORDER TO HAVE AS MUCH OF
IMPACT AS THEY'VE HAD WITH
40 MILLION CARDS IT WOULD
SEEM LIKELY THAT THEY'VE HAD
ACCESS AT THE CENTRALIZED
PART OF THE ORGANIZATION IN
THE CENTRAL NETWORK THAT
MAYBE ALLOWED THEM TO REACH
INTO THE INDIVIDUAL
POINT-OF-SALE SYSTEMS, OR AT
LEAST DISTRIBUTE THE
SOFTWARE FROM THAT CENTRAL
POINT INTO MANY
POINT-OF-SALE SYSTEMS.
>> Ifill: AND AN INSIDE JOB,
PERHAPS?
>> NOT LIKELY.
THERE ARE A LOT OF
SITUATIONS LIKE THIS THAT
WE'VE SEEN OVER TIME.
AND IT'S NEVER BEEN AN
INSIDER, NOT IN OUR
EXPERIENCE.
WE'VE DEALT WITH HUNDREDS OF
THESE SITUATION.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THESE KINDS OF SITUATIONS.
YOU SAY THAT THIS HAPPENED
BEFORE.
THIS IS ONLY UNUSUAL IN ITS
SIDE?
>> YES, I DON'T KNOW IF
IT'S'S UNPRECEDENTED BUT IN
THE PAST BREACHES LIKE THE
TJX BREACH JZ WHICH IS T.J.
MAXX STORES.
>> YES.
HANNAFORD, THERE HAVE BEEN
OTHER NOT JUST RETAIL
BREACHES BUT BREACHES OF
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS,
PAYMENT PROCESSORS, THAT ARE
SIMILAR IN THAT THE ATTACKER
CAME IN FROM THE OUTSIDE,
AGGREGATED INFORMATION AND
REMOVED IT.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK OF THE
HARDWARE FOR A MOMENT.
WHY DOES IT MAKE A
DIFFERENCE THAT IT HAPPENED
WITH PEOPLE WHO SWIPED THEIR
CARDS?
WOULD IT HAVE HANDED IF YOU
JUST HANDED YOUR CARD OVER
IN SOME OTHER WAY.
>> JUST HANDED YOUR CARD
OVER-- .
>> Ifill: TO THE CASHIER,
THEY'RE GOING TO SWIPE IT
TOO, I GUESS.
>> YOU'RE TO THE GOING TO
GET-- IN ORDER T DOO THIS
LARGE SCALE IT HAS TO BE
AUTOMATED.
>> Ifill: AND SO WHAT PERIOD
OF TIME ARE WE TALKING ABOUT
HERE?
WE HEARD FROM BEFORE
THANKSGIVING UNTIL DECEMBER
15TH.
BUT WOULD IT TAKE LONG TORE
GET THAT MANY OR IS IT JUST
BECAUSE THE SHOPPING SEASON
IS IN FULL SWING.
>> WELL, IT'S HIGH VOLUMES
NOW, SO THIS IS THE ROYALTY
TIME TO DO IT.
I THINK IT'S STILL REALLY
EARLY IN THE INVESTIGATION.
MY GUESS, BECAUSE IT SOUNDS
LIKE THEY ONLY SAID THEY
WERE ABLE TO CONDITION TAKEN
IT AS OF THE 15th, MY GUESS
IS THEY DISCOVERED IT
RELATIVELY RECENTLY, PUT THE
BRAKES, THE STOPS SON
WHATEVER ACTIVITY WAS GOING
ON, AND I THINK NOW THEY
SHOULD BE DEEP INTO AN
INVESTIGATION WHICH MAY TAKE
A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF
TIME STILL.
>> Ifill: NOW A LOT OF THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE WATCHING THIS
STORY WHO PERHAPS HAVE JUST
GOTTEN HOME FROM DOING A
LITTLE CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
ARE THINKING TO THEMSELVES,
WHO IS LIABLE.
WHO GIVES ME BACK MY MONEY
IF I HAVE FALLEN VICTIM TO
THIS?
>> WELL, THE CARD BRANDS
MAKE SURE THAT THE
INDIVIDUAL CONSUMER DOESN'T
HAVE THAT TYPE OF LIABILITY.
IF YOU CONTACT YOUR CREDIT
CARD ORGANIZATION, YOUR
ISSUING BANK AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE IF YOU SEE FRAUD
CHARGES YOU'RE ALWAYS
INDEMNIFIED FROM THAT.
SO THAT SHOULDN'T BE AN
ISSUE THAT ANYONE NEEDS TO
WORRY ABOUT.
>> Ifill: IS THE STORE
ITSELF, IS THE CHAIN ITSELF
RESPONSIBLE?
>> WELL, RESPONSIBLE
ULTIMATELY THEY WOULD HAVE
FINANCIAL OBLIGATION TO THE
CARD BRANDS.
THERE TYPICALLY WOULD BE
FINS IF THEY WERE FOUND TO
BE IN BREECH OF THE PAYMENT
CARD INDUSTRY SECURITY
STANDARD.
>> Ifill: AND WHAT
RESPONSIBILITY DO CONSUMERS
HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT, TO
PROTECT THEMSELVES, OR IS
THERE ANYTHING THEY CAN DO
AT ALL TO PROTECT THEMSELVES
FROM THIS KIND OF INTRUSION?
>> IN THIS TYPE OF SITUATION
THERE ISN'T MUCH A CONSUMER
CAN DO.
THEY'RE REALLY PUTTING THEIR
CONFIDENCE IN THE
INSTITUTION THEY'RE DEALING
WITH.
AND ALL THEY CAN DO IS CHECK
THEIR CARDS, THEIR
STATEMENTS TO MAKE SURE THAT
IF THEY SEE INAPPROPRIATE
ACTIVITY THEY RESPOND TO IT
QUICKLY.
>> Ifill: ARE YOU SAYING
EVEN AFTER ALL THE HACKING
EPISODES WE HAVE SEEN, WE
HAVE SURVIVED, THAT
TECHNOLOGY IS SUCH THAT
THERE IS NO WAY TO PROTECT
AGAINST SOMETHING LIKE THIS
HAPPENING?
>>.
>> OH THERE ARE MANY
PROTECTIONS.
THERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT YOU CAN DO TO
WARD OFF IT.
BUT THERE AREN'T ANY
GUARANTEES.
YOU CAN'T EVER SAY THAT
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY SECURE.
SECURITY IS AN ASSYMETRICAL
TYPE OF ISSUE WHERE YOU CAN
PROTECT YOURSELF IN
THOUSANDS OF DIFFERENT WAYS.
AND ATTACKER ONLY NEEDS TO
FIND ONE WAY IN.
>> Ifill: GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE
OF ONE WAY TO PROTECT, FOR
THE COMPANY, TO PROTECT ITS
CONSUMER.
>> A COMPANY TYPICALLY WOULD
PERFORM ASSESSMENTS OF THEIR
ENVIRONMENT TO DETERMINE
WHETHER THEY HAD VULNERABLES
THE ATTACKERS COULD TAKE VAC
OF IN THEIR WEB SITES SO
THEY COULD TEST THEM TO SEE
IF THEY HAVE PROBLEMS.
THEY WOULD EVALUATE THEIR
COMPUTERS TO SEE IF THEY
CONFIGURED THEM
APPROPRIATELY.
BECAUSE THERE ARE KNOWN WAYS
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SYSTEMS,
SO THEY WOULD BE
SELF-INSPECTING THOSE TYPES
OF THINGS.
>> Ifill: SO THE VERY FIRST
THING IS THERE IS
SELF-INSPECTION FROM THE
RETAILER OR AS I SAW TODAY
THE SECRET SERVICE GETS
INVOLVED IN THIS?
>> THE SECRET SERVICE WOULD
BE INVOLVED TO HELP THEM
INVESTIGATE BUT WOULDN'T BE
THERE TO HELP THEM DEFEND
THEMSELVES.
PAIN, ALMOST ALL MAJOR
ORGANIZATIONS HAVE FULL-TIME
SECURITY STAFFS WHERE THEY
ARE ALWAYS LOOKING AT THEIR
ENVIRONMENT AND TRYING TO
MAKE SURE THAT THEY'RE UP TO
DATE ON THEIR SOFTWARE THAT
IF THEY FIND A PROBLEM THEY
FIX IT.
BUT IT'S A TOUGH THING.
THE LARGER THE ENVIRONMENT,
THE MORE DIFFICULT IT IS TO
FIND AND RESOLVE THE ISSUES.
>> Ifill: OKAY, STEVE
SUDDENO FROM MANDIANT,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR HELPING
US OUT.
WE HAVE MORE HOW YOU CAN
GUARD AGAINST CREDIT CARD
THIEVES YOU CAN FIND A BEST
PRACTICES GUIDE ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN PRESIDED OVER HIS
ANNUAL NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY,
AND, DESPITE THE MARATHON
SESSION WITH REPORTERS, HE HELD
BACK THE MOST NEWS-MAKING
ANNOUNCEMENT UNTIL AFTER IT WAS
OVER.
THE TIGHTLY CHOREOGRAPHED EVENT
ATTRACTED HUNDREDS OF RUSSIAN
JOURNALISTS, WITH SOME HOLDING
SIGNS-- AND EVEN STUFFED ANIMALS
AND DOLLS-- HOPING PUTIN WOULD
NOTICE AND CALL ON THEM.
BUT THE RUSSIAN LEADER SAVED HIS
BIGGEST HEADLINE UNTIL THE FOUR-
HOUR-LONG NEWS CONFERENCE
FINALLY ENDED, ANNOUNCING HE
WILL PARDON THE JAILED OIL
TYCOON, MIKHAIL KHODORKOVSKY.
>> ( translated ): HE HAS
ALREADY SPENT MORE THAN TEN
YEARS IN JAIL.
IT IS A SERIOUS PUNISHMENT.
HE REFERS TO CIRCUMSTANCES OF
THE HUMANITARIAN NATURE; HIS
MOTHER IS ILL.
AND I THINK THAT, BEARING IN
MIND THOSE CIRCUMSTANCES, IT IS
POSSIBLE TO MAKE THAT DECISION,
AND I WILL SOON SIGN AN ORDER
ABOUT HIS PARDON.
>> Woodruff: KHODORKOVSKY WAS
ONCE THE WEALTHIEST OLIGARCH IN
RUSSIA, BUT HE WAS ARRESTED AT
GUNPOINT IN 2003 AFTER
CRITICIZING PUTIN AND FUNDING
OPPOSITION PARTIES.
HE WAS CONVICTED OF TAX EVASION
AND EMBEZZLEMENT IN CASES WIDELY
VIEWED AS PART OF PUTIN'S
CAMPAIGN TO SILENCE CRITICS.
TODAY'S PARDON ANNOUNCEMENT WAS
COUPLED WITH AMNESTY FOR TWO
MEMBERS OF THE PUNK ROCK BAND
PUSSY RIOT, JAILED AFTER AN
ANTI-KREMLIN PROTEST AT MOSCOW'S
MAIN CATHEDRAL, AND FOR 30
CREWMEMBERS OF A GREENPEACE SHIP
WHO PROTESTED RUSSIAN OIL
DRILLING IN THE ARCTIC.
>> ( translated ): IT IS NOT A
REVISION OF THE COURT'S
DECISION; THIS IS A GENERAL
DECISION ABOUT THE AMNESTY WHICH
COVERS THEM, AS WELL.
IT IS NOT CONNECTED TO
GREENPEACE OR TO THIS PARTICULAR
BAND.
IT IS NOT MY DECISION BUT THE
DECISION OF THE STATE DUMA.
>> Woodruff: ALL OF THIS AS
PUTIN IS TRYING TO TAMP DOWN
CRITICISM OF RUSSIA'S RECORD ON
HUMAN RIGHTS AND POLITICAL
FREEDOMS.HE RUSSIAN PRESIDENT AD
TODAY TO EASE STRAINED TIES WITH
WASHINGTON.
HE DENIED RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE
HAS PUMPED EDWARD SNOWDEN FOR
INFORMATION SINCE THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY LEAKER WAS GIVEN
ASYLUM IN AUGUST.
>> ( translated ): WE DO NOT
WORK WITH HIM AND HAVE NEVER
WORKED WITH HIM.
AND WE DON'T BUG HIM WITH ALL
THOSE QUESTIONS AS TO WHAT WAS
BEING DONE IN RELATION TO RUSSIA
OR HOW IT WAS BEING DONE AT THE
AGENCY HE WORKED FOR.
>> Woodruff: PUTIN ALSO SAID HE
BELIEVES U.S. SURVEILLANCE
EFFORTS ARE NEEDED TO FIGHT
TERRORISM IF THERE ARE CLEAR
GROUND RULES.
BUT ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM,
HE WARNED THAT NEW AMERICAN
SANCTIONS AGAINST 19 IRANIAN
COMPANIES COULD HINDER PROGRESS
TOWARD A COMPREHENSIVE
AGREEMENT.
>> ( translated ): AS FOR
SANCTIONS, I'M CERTAIN THAT THIS
IS A COUNTERPRODUCTIVE DECISION.
IT WILL NOT LEAD TO ANYTHING
GOOD IN TERMS OF FINAL
AGREEMENTS ON SOLVING THIS
ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: AT THE SAME TIME,
PUTIN DEFENDED RUSSIA'S
AGREEMENT TO OFFER A $15 BILLION
BAILOUT TO UKRAINE AS MERELY
HELPING A PARTNER IN NEED.
>> ( translated ): THIS IS NOT
LINKED NEITHER WITH THE PROTESTS
NOR WITH TALKS BETWEEN UKRAINE
AND THE EUROPEAN UNION.
WE JUST SEE THAT UKRAINE IS IN A
DIFFICULT STATE AND IT IS
NECESSARY TO SUPPORT IT, AND WE
HAVE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SUPPORT
THEM FINANCIALLY.
>> Woodruff: PUTIN'S NEWS
CONFERENCE COMES AS RUSSIA
PREPARES TO HOST THE SOCCHI
WINTER OLYMPICS IN FEBRUARY AND
JUST OVER A WEEK AFTER HE WAS
CRITICIZED FOR SHUTTING DOWN A
STATE NEWS AGENCY WHICH
ATTEMPTED TO INCLUDE THE VOICES
OF THE COUNTRY'S OPPOSITION IN
ITS COVERAGE.
THE EXACT TIMING OF THE RELEASE
OF KHODORKOVSKY AND THE OTHERS
IS STILL UNKNOWN.
NOW, TO HELP US UNDERSTAND
WHAT'S BEHIND PUTIN'S
ANNOUNCEMENTS, I'M JOINED BY:
DIMITRI SIMES, PRESIDENT OF THE
CENTER FOR THE NATIONAL
INTEREST, A FOREIGN POLICY THINK
TANK; AND ANGELA STENT IS
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER FOR
EURASIAN, RUSSIAN AND EAST
EUROPEAN STUDIES AT GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY.
HER LATEST BOOK IS "THE LIMITS
OF PARTNERSHIP: U.S. RUSSIAN
RELATIONS IN THE 21st CENTURY."
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
ANGELA STENT TO YOU FIRST,
WHY THE KHODORKOVSKY PARDON?
>> WELL, I THINK IT REVEALS
TWO THINGS.
ONE OF THEM IS THAT PUTIN
CLEARLY DOESN'T FEEL
THREATENED ANY MORE BY
KHODORKOVSKY SOW DOESN'T
HAVE TO KEEP HIM IN JAIL.
AND I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF-- IT THAT IT'S BEEN TEN
YEARS BUT I THINK SECONDLY
IT HAS TO DO WITH ALL THE
THINGS WE HEARD IN YOUR
IMPORTANT.
THE UPCOMING SOCHI GAME, THE
CRITICISM RUSSIA FOR MANY OF
THE THINGS THAT PUTIN HAS
DONE RECENTLY BUT
PARTICULARLY THE SO-CALLED
HOMOSEXUAL PROPAGANDA LAW,
WHICH HAS PEOPLE REALLY
RILED UP ABOUT WHAT WILL
HAPPEN AT SOCHI ABOUT THE
TREATMENT OF ATHLETES AM SO
I THINK THIS A GESTURE TO
SHOW THAT RUSSIA LISTENS TO
SOME OF THE OUTSIDE WORLD'S
CONCERNS, THAT IT ISN'T JUST
IMPRISONING PEOPLE T ISN'T
NEGATIVE AND IT'S SUPPOSED
TO SYMBOLICALLY SHOW THAT
RUSSIA AND THAT PUTIN
HIMSELF HAVE BECOME MORE
OPEN TO SOME OF THESE ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: DIMITYI SIMES
HOW DO YOU READ WHAT HE HAS
DONE FOR KHODORKOVSKY.
>> EXACTLY RIGHT BUT TO PUT
THINGS INTO PERSPECTIVE,
KHODORKOVSKY WAS SUPPOSED TO
BE RELEASED IN AUGUST IS SO
NOW HE WILL BE-- .
>> Woodruff: THIS COMING
AUGUST.
>> THIS COMING AUGUST, AFTER
THEN KEAR-- TENIERS IN JAIL.
SO NOW HE WILL BE RELEASED A
FEW MONTHS EARLIER.
IT'S VERY GOOD IN TERMS OF
PUBLIC RELATIONS FOR PUTIN
BUT IT DOESN'T CHANGE MUCH.
THE PUSSY RIOT.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS THE
PUNK ROCK WOMEN'S MUSIC
GROUP.
>> EXACTLY, WHICH HAD AN
INTERESTING PERFORMANCE,
VERY PROVOCATIVE, THEY WERE
ARRESTED FOR THAT BUT ANYWAY,
THEY'RE NOW UNDER AMNESTY
BUT THEY WOULD BE RELEASED
ANYWAY IN MARCH.
SO PUTIN GOT A LOT OF
PUBLICITY BUT HE CONCEDED
VERY LITTLE.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU ARE
SAYING THAT IT'S NOT THAT
BIG A DEAL WHAT HE'S DONE
WITH THESE PARDONS.
>> THAT IS NOT THAT BIG A
DEAL.
ANGELA, I THINK, AGAIN IS
RIGHT, SAYING THAT PUTIN
WANTS TO LOOK REASONABLE,
AND DEMONSTRATE RUSSIA IS A
COUNTRY OF LAW.
SOMETIMES THE LEVEL OF
RUSSIAN REPRESSION IS
OVERSTATED IN THE UNITED
STATES AND THE WEST IN
GENERAL SO PUTIN WANTS TO
LOOK SENSIBLE AND
CALIBRATED.
>> Woodruff: ANGELA STENT,
DO YOU SEE WHAT HE DID WITH
REGARD TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
PUSSY RI OT BAND AND THE
GREENPEACE PENS, MEMBERS OF
THE GREENPEACE GROUP AS ALL
AS A PART OF THE SAME EFFORT
TO FOR PUBLIC RELATIONS.
>> IT CERTAINLY IS I AGREE
WITH DIMITRI, THEIR TERM WAS
COMING TO AN END IN A COUPLE
MONTHS.
LET ME SAY ABOUT
KHODORKOVSKY THAT WERE
RUMORS LAST WEEK A NEW CASE
WOULD BE BROUGHT AGAINST HIM
AND HE WOULDN'T BE RELEASED
IN AUGUST AS HE WAS SUPPOSED
TO BEMENT SO ONE OF THE
THINGS PUTIN HAS DONE IS
PUSH THAT BACK AND SAY NO,
NO, THERE WON'T BE ANOTHER
TRIAL AND BY THE WAY I'M
MAGNAN MUSS AN AM RELEASING
HIM NOW.
THE PUSSY RYEOUT IS THE SAME
THING.
THIS VERY BEEN IN JAIL, FOR
PARTICULARLY BAD CONDITIONS,
ONE IN A LABOR CAMP AND HAS
BLOINGD ABOUT T HE LOOKS PAG
THAN MUSS T IS A PR
GESTUREMENT BUT AS DIMITRI
SAYS THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN
RELEASED ANYWAY THOSE TWO
WOMEN IN A COUPLE OF MONTHS.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS A
FOUR HOUR LONG NEWS
CONFERENCE, HE COVERED A LOT
OF TERRITORY DURING THAT
TIME.
HE ALSO TALKED AS WE SAID
ABOUT EDWARD SNOWDEN, ABOUT
WHAT THE NSA, THE U.S.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY IS
DOING.
HE BASICALLY SEEMED TO BE
DEFENDING WHATEVER THEY'RE
DOING AT THE SAME TIME AS
SOMETHING THAT IS DEALING
WITH A LOT OF CONTROVERSY
HERE IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> WELL, HE IS DEFENDING THE
EXISTING PRACTICES.
AND HE ALSO IS ENGAGED IN A
DELICATE BALANCING ACT.
HE IS VERY TOUGH, IN
DEFENDING RUSSIA INITIAL
INTERESTS AS HE UNDERSTANDS
THEM.
HE WOULD FRANKLY BE FULLY
PREPARED TO CHALLENGE THE
UNITED STATES ON SYRIA, AS
HE HAS DONE BEFORE.
>> Woodruff: ON SYRIA.
>> CERTAINLY ON IRAN WHEN HE
SAID THAT HE IS OPPOSED TO
SANCTIONS, PARTICULARLY
UNILATERAL AMERICAN
SANCTIONS BUT AT THE SAME
TIME HE WANTS TO A PER
REASONABLE.
AND HE PARTICULARLY WANTED
TO MAKE CLEAR THAT HE CAN
WORK WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA.
ANGELA AND I WERE AT AN
EVENT WITH PUTIN SEVERAL
MONTHS AGO.
AND PUTIN WENT OUT OF HIS
WAY TO BE MAGNAN MUSS WITH O
BAM -- OBAMA AFTER HE-- HE
WANTED TO SAY NO, OBAMA HAD
CHOICES, HE MADE COURAGEOUS
CHOICE, PRINCIPAL CHOICE, HE
DOES NOT WANT TO CREATE AN
IMPRESSION THAT THE RUSSIAN
LEAD KERR NOT WORK WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
>> Woodruff: ANGELA STENT,
WHY IS THAT, GO AHEAD.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT IS AFTER
MAKING A DECISION TO GIVE
SNOWDEN TEMPORARY POLITICAL
ASYLUM WHICH MADE SENSE, A
WONDERFUL PROP
BAND-- PROPAGANDA COUP WHICH
SAYS THE U.S. HAS NO RIGHT
TO CRITICIZE RUSSIA FOR
LISTENING TO ITS OWN
CITIZENS PHONE CALLS SINCE
THE UNITED STATES DOES THAT
ITSELF.
HE COULD HAVE NOT GIVEN HIM
ASYLUM, HE DID.
AFTER THAT OBVIOUSLY
PRESIDENT OBAMA DECIDED THAT
HE WAS TO THE GOING TO GO
AND HAVE A SUM WIT PRESIDENT
PUTIN.
AND IN FACT, SINCE SNOWDEN
HAS BEEN IN RUSSIA,
TREMENDOUS DAMAGE HAS BEEN
DONE TO THE UNITED STATES'S
RELATIONS WITH ITS EUROPEAN
ALLIES.
I MEAN THE WORST FOR A VERY,
VERY LONG TIME.
AND THESE ARE ALL REVELATIONS
THAT COME FROM SNOWDEN.
SO YES, I WOULD TAKE
SKEPTICISM THE CLAIM THAT
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
NOT BEEN WORKING WITH
MR. SNOWDEN BUT TO PUT THAT
ASIDE, THE DAMAGE HAS BEEN
DONE.
ALL THE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS
ARE STILL BEING LEAKED.
SO IT'S QUITE EASY FOR
PRESIDENT PUTIN TO SAY WELL,
HE WANTS TO WORK WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
I DONE THINK HE'S GOING TO
FIND MUCH OF A RESPONSE
THERE, BECAUSE IT'S QUITE
CLEAR THAT THE WHITE HOUSE
HAS MADE ITS OWN CONCLUSIONS
FROM WHAT HAPPENED EARLIER
THIS YEAR.
>> Woodruff: A COUPLE MORE
THINGS I WANT TO ASK YOU
BOTH ABOUT, BUT BEFORE I DO,
DIMITRI SIMES, DID YOU GET
ANY NEW SENSE TODAY OF
WHETHER RUSSIA IS GOING TO
BE WILLING TO WORK MORE WITH
THE U.S. OR IRAN, ON THE
NUCLEAR, TRYING TO GET RID
OF THEIR NEW CLEAR PROGRAM
AND ON SYRIA?
>> WELL, PUTIN CLEARLY DID
NOT YIELD ANYTHING OF
SUBSTANCE ON EITHER OF THESE
ISSUES.
IN MY VIEW IF YOU WANT TO
UNDERSTAND PUTIN'S NEW
FLEXIBILITY, YOU HAVE TO
LOOK AT ONE FIGURE, 1.4%.
THAT IS THE LEVEL OF RUSSIAN
GDP GROWTH, LOWER FIGURE
THAN ANYONE EXPECTED IN 2013,
THE AMBITIONS ARE GREAT, THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IMPOSES
A STRAIGHT JACKET ON WHAT HE
HAS TO ACCOMPLISH.
SO RELUCTANTLY HE HAS TO
DISPLAY SOME COMMON GROUND
WITH THE UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: ANGELA STENT --
>> WELL, I WAS JUST GOING TO
SAY AND WITH THAT VERY
LOW-GROWTH RATE HE HAS JUST
NOW PROMISED $15 BILLION
FROM THE NATIONAL WELFARE
FUND TO PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH
WHO MAY OR MAY NOT SPEND IT
WISELY, ONE UNDERSTANDS THE
POLITICAL REASONS BUT THIS
WILL BE SOME ECONOMIC BURDEN
ON RUSSIA WHOSE ECONOMIC
OUTLOOK FOR THE NEXT DECADE
IS TO THE GOOD AS RUSSIAN
ECONOMISTS THEMSELVES HAVE
SAID.
>> Woodruff: ANGELA STENT,
WE KNOW AS WE REPORTED JUST
A FEW DAYS AGO, PUTIN CLOSED
DOWN ONE OF THE STATE-RUN
MEDIA ORGANIZATIONS.
HOW FREE TODAY FINALLY IS
RUSSIAN SOCIETY UNDER
VLADIMIR PUTIN?
>> WELL, IN SOME WAYS, THERE
ARE STILL FREEDOMS, CLEARLY.
PEOPLE HAVE PERSONAL
FREEDOMS.
THEY CAN TRAVEL AND THEY CAN,
BY THE WAY, LEAVE RUSSIA AND
GO AND LIVE SOMEWHERE ELSE
WHICH OF COURSE THEY
COULDN'T DO BEFORE.
THE INTERNET IS STILL PRETTY
FREE IN RUSSIA.
PRINT MEDIA, THERE ARE VERY
CRITICAL PRINT MEDIA, THERE
IS ONE RADIO STATION THAT IS
VERY CRITICAL, ELECTRONIC
MEDIA ARE CONTROLLED BY THE
GOVERNMENT.
AND ARE GOING TO BE EVEN
MORE SO SINCE THE ABOLITION
OF THE NEWS AGENCY.
SO THERE ARE SOME FREEDOMS
THAT THEY'VE CLEARLY BEEN
CURTAILED IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS.
>> Woodruff: AN DIMITRI
SIMES, ARE WE TO UNDERSTAND
THAT IT IS GOING IN THE
DIRECTION AGAINST FREEDOM
UNDER PUTIN.
>> I THINK IT IS QUITE
CONTRADICTORY.
EVEN THE RUSSIAN ELECTRONIC
MEDIA HAS SEVERAL DIFFERENT
STORIES.
IF YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
CABLE CHANNELS, THEY ARE
ALMOST COMPLETELY FREE.
AND YOU HAVE SOME OF THEM
HAVE OWNERS WHICH ARE VERY
CRITICAL OF PUTIN.
THEY CALL PUTIN A CROOK, A
TYRANT.
STREAM TV CHANNELS WHICH
CONTROL TO THE GOVERNMENT
ARE MUCH MORE CONSTRAINED
BUT EVEN THEY HAVE A LOT OF
CRITICAL OPINIONS.
I WOULD SAY PUTIN IS MAKING
TWO-STEPS FORWARD, AND ONE
AND A HALF STEPS BACK.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT, WE
HEAR YOU.
THAT IS A MEASUREMENT WE CAN
ALL UNDERSTAND.
DIMITRI SIMES, AND ANGELA
STENT, WE THANK YOU
>> Ifill: THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
TALK ABOUT THE POLITICS BEHIND
THE BIPARTISAN BUDGET AGREEMENT.
WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK NOW AT THE
DEVIL IN THOSE DETAILS.
SENATE DEMOCRATS WERE HAPPY
TODAY TO TOUT THE BUDGET DEAL
HEADED TO THE PRESIDENT'S DESK.
BUDGET COMMITTEE CHAIRWOMAN
PATTY MURRAY SAID THE AGREEMENT
WAS ABOUT MORE THAN JUST FUNDING
THGOVEE RNMENT.
>> WE SHOWED THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
THAT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS CAN
WORK TOGETHER, THAT WE CAN
LISTEN TO EACH OTHER AND GET
INTO A ROOM AND TALK FRANKLY
WITHOUT TRYING TO HURT EACH
OTHER POLITICALLY.
SECONDLY, BY BREAKING THROUGH
THE PARTISANSHIP, WE FINALLY
ENDED THE SEEMINGLY NEVER-ENDING
CYCLE OF LURCHING FROM ONE
CRISIS TO THE NEXT.
>> Ifill: THE BUDGET PLAN AVERTS
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN LIKE
THE ONE THIS PAST OCTOBER THAT
LASTEDOR 1 F6 DAYS.
IT ALSO GIVES THE PENTAGON SOME
RELIEF FROM AUTOMATIC SPENDING
CUTS AND RESTORES BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS TO DOMESTIC PROGRAMS,
INCLUDING SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
THE $62 BILLION PRICE TAG WILL
BE PAID FOR, IN PART, BY SCALING
BACK BENEFITS FOR MILITARY
RETIREES UNDER THE AGE OF 62.
BUT ALREADY, THERE IS TALK FROM
BOTH SIDES ABOUT FINDING THE
MONEY SOMEWHERE ELSE INSTEAD.
THE DEAL WON NINE REPUBLICAN
VOTES YESTERDAY, BUT OTHERS--
INCLUDING TOM COBURN OF
OKLAHOMA-- ARGUED IT DOES MORE
HARM THAN GOOD.
>> I WANT TO DESCRIBE WHO IT'S A
COMPROMISE FOR.
IT'S A COMPROMISE FOR THE
POLITICIANS.
IT'S NOT A COMPROMISE FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, BECAUSE WHAT IT
REALLY DOES IS INCREASE SPENDING
AND INCREASE TAXES.
>> Ifill: AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
AIDES TO PSIDERENT OBAMA
RELEASED A STATEMENT AFTER THE
VOTE, SAYING, IN PART: "IT'S A
GOOD FIRST STEP AWAY FROM THE
SHORTSIGHTED, CRISIS-DRIVEN
DECISION-MAKING THAT HAS ONLY
SERVED TO ACT AS A DRAG ON OUR
ECONOMY."
THE AGREEMENT NOW AWAITS THE
PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE.
HERE TO WALK US THROUGH SOME OF
THE LINGERING DEBATE ABOUT THE
BUDGET DEAL IS LORI MONTGOMERY
OF THE "WASHINGTON POST."
WELCOME BACK, LORI.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING US.
>> DOES THIS DEAL SHOW THAT
THE BULING CUTS HAVE BEEN
ICED.
>> NO, THEY HAVE NOT BEEN
PERMANENTLY EASED.
THIS IS A VERY MODEST DEAL.
AND PAUL RYAN AN PATTY
MURRAY SAID THEY WEREN'T
GOING TO TRY TO SOLVE ALL
THE WORLD'S PROBLEMS SO WHAT
THEY'VE DONE IS FOR THE
CURRENT FISCALEAR Y THEY'VE
WALKED BACK HALF OF THE
SEQUESTER CUT, SO $45
BILLION GOES BACK TO THE
AGENCY, 45 BILLION IN CUTS
STAYS IN PLACE.
NEXT YEAR THERE IS A
SLIGHTLY SMALLER RELIEF FROM
SEQUESTER AND AFTER THAT
SEQUESTER STAYS PUT.
SO REPUBLICANS HAVE WON
SOMETHING IN THE SENSE THAT
THEY HAVE MAINTAINED THE
SPENDING CAP THAT WILL
REDUCE SPENDING FOR THE NEXT
TEN YEARS.
BUT IN THE SHORT TERM, FOR
NOW, THERE'S GOING TO BE A
BIG BOOST IN SPENDING FOR
DOMESTIC AGENCIES AND THE
PENTAGON THAT THEY HADN'T
BEEN EXPECTING IDES SO WHEN
YOU RAISE THAT CAP AND YOU
TALK ABOUT DOMESTIC SPENDING
FOR THE PENTAGON THERE ARE
OTHER AGENCIES WHICH I
IMAGINE BENEFIT AS WELL,
SOMEBODY GOT A BENEFIT OUT
OF THIS, AMONG THEM, FOR
INSTANCE, DURING THE
SHUTDOWN WE HEARD A LOT
ABOUT THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, AND
CHILDREN BEING TURNED AWAY
FROM MEDICAL TRIALS.
DO THEY NOW GET MORE MONEY?
>> WELL, SEE, ALL OF THAT
HAS YET TO BE DECIDED.
AND IT'S BEEN A LITTLE
PREMATURE CELEBRATING AROUND
HERE.
WE'VE ALL BEEN SAYING OH,
THIS AVOIDS ANOTHER
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
IN FACT, THEY HAVE
YET-- THEY HAVE TO PASS
ANOTHER BILL TO AVOID A
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
WHICH COULD STILL HAPPEN ON
JANUARY 15th.
I MEAN, IN A RATIONAL WORLD
IT WOULDN'T BECAUSE
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
HAVE NOW AGREED, OKAY,
HERE'S THE NUMBER, THIS IS
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO SPEND ON
THESE THINGS THIS YEARMENT
BUT THEY STILL HAVE TO, LIKE,
PORTION OUT ALL THIS EXTRA
MONEY THAT THEY'VE JUST
DECIDED TO SPEND.
AND THAT WILL HAPPEN OVER
THE NEXT MONDAYMENT AND THEY
WILL PASS THAT BILL,
HOPEFULLY WHEN THEY GET BACK
IN JANUARY.
>> Ifill: BUT THE WAY THINGS
LOOK NOW, FOR INSTANCE, WE
SAY SOMEBODY BENEFIT,
SOMEBODY PAYS.
ARE MILITARY RETIREES PAYING,
THERE HAS BEEN A LOT OF TALK
ABOUT THAT THIS WEEK.
>> YEAH, SO THIS IS BY FAR
THE MOST CONTROVERSIAL PAID
FOR IN THIS PACKAGE.
THIS PACKAGE DOESN'T GIVE
AWAY ANY EXTRA MONEY, BUT IT
DOES IDENTIFY ALL OF THE
SAVINGS THAT ALLOW US TO
SPEND MORE NOW.
THIS $85 BILLION IN CUTS,
FEES, AIINERL PASSENGERS
PAYING MORE, A BUNCH OF
STUFF.
BUT BY FAR THE GROUP THAT IS
YELLING THE LOUDEST AND
GETTING HIT MOST
DRAMATICALLY ARE MILITARY
RETIREES.
CIVIL SERVICE WORKERS,
NONMILITARY WORKERS WILL
ALSO SEE A REDUCTION IN
THEIR PENSION, BUT THAT'S
JUST FOR NEW EMPLOYEES.
IN THE CASE OF MILITARY
RETIREES, IF YOU ARE
CURRENTLY RETIRED, AND
YOU'RE UNDER THE AGE OF
6-- 62, WILL YOU SEE A 1%
KNOCKOFF OF YOUR
COST-OF-LIVING INCREASE.
>> Ifill: SO FOR INSTANCE,
WE KNOW A LOT OF MILITARY
PEOPLE ESPECIALLY HERE IN
THE WASHINGTON AREA WHO
RETIRED AFTER 20 YEARS IN
THE MILITARY.
THEY WEREN'T EVEN 50 YEARS
OLD YET, AN THEY'RE THE ONES
WHO WOULD BE TARGETED IN
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
>> EXACTLY.
AND SO THE ARGUMENT IS WELL,
THESE PEOPLE ARE STILL OF
WORKING AGE.
THEY'RE UNDER THE AGE OF 62.
THEY CAN RETIRE AS YOUNG AS
38, 40, AN MANY OF THEM GO
ON AND CURRENTLY HAVE SECOND
CAREERS.
SO YOU KNOW, THEY CAN AFFORD
TO GIVE AWAY 1%AGE POINT
REDUCTION.
BUT THE ARC ON THE OTHER
SIDE, AND IT'S BEEN COMING
PRIMARILY FROM THE
REPUBLICANS IN THE SENATE,
BUT I THINK DEMOCRATS ARE
STARTING TO CONCEDE, OKAY,
MAYBE YOU HAVE A POINT, IS
THAT THESE PEOPLE HAVE
PLANNED THEIR LIVES AROUND
TEHE BENEFITS AND THEY SEE
IT AS A BREACH OF TRUST FOR
THEM NOW TO TAKE A HIT, YOU
KNOW, SORT OF RETROACTIVELY.
>> Ifill: ISN'T THERE A
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILL
GOING THROUGH AS WELL, THAT
ALSO HAS ITS PROTECTORS.
IS THE PENTAGON ONE OF THOSE
UNCUTABLE AGENCIES?
>> WELL, THE PENTAGON HAS
SEEN ITS SHARE OF CUTS.
IT'S TO THE GETTING ALL OF
ITS MONEY BACK.
IT'S GETTING HALF OF ITS
MONEY BACK THIS YEAR.
BUT THERE'S ALSO A
COMMISSION DEDICATED TO
MILITARY PAY AND BENEFITS
WHICH S YOU KNOW, WE TALK
ABOUT SOCIAL SECURITY,
THAT'S ALMOST NOTHING
COMPARED TO CUTTING THE
BENEFITS OF OUR ACTIVE DUTY
AN RETIRED MILITARIMEN.
AND THAT COMMISSION IS
SUPPOSED TO REPORT NEXT
YEAR.
BECAUSE ENTITLEMENTS, YOU
KNOW, RETIREMENT AND HEALTH
CARE IS EATING THE PENTAGON
ALIVE AS IT IS IN SO MANY
OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: IF THIS STAYS IN
PLACE, IS THERE ANY WAY TO
E RETIREE WOULD HAVEHE
TO PAY EXTRA?
>> IT'S NOT-- IT'S WHAT THEY
DON'T GET.
SO --
>> A LITTLE BACKWARDS.
>> YES SO, THEY WOULD-- THIS
YEAR, FOR EXAMPLE, THE
COST-OF-LIVING INCREASE WAS
1.5%.
THEY WOULD HAVE SEEN A .5%
INCREASE INSTEAD OF A 1.5%
INCREASE.
AND IT CAN ADD UP TO REAL
MONEY.
THE UNION THAT REPRESENTS
MILITARY OFFICERS HAS SAID
THAT THIS COULD BE A HIT OF
LIKE 7 O-- $70,000, $100,000
IF ARE YOU IN THAT SORT OF
DOUGHNUT HOLE FROM AGE 40 TO
AGE 62, FOR THE ENTIRE
PERIOD.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT ANOTHER
AREA OF THE BUDGET THAT
MIGHT AFFECT REAL PEOPLE
ASSUMING IT STAYS IN PLACE
AS IT IS NOW PLANNED.
WHICH IS PAYMENT TO MEDICARE
PROVIDERS.
THIS IS NOT-- WE DON'T
NECESSARILY KNOW HOW MUCH
THIS MIGHT TRICKLE DOWN TO
THE ACTUAL PATIENT.
BUT DOCTORS AND CLINICS
MIGHT BE-- VE HATO PAY MORE.
>> SO THE REAL DANGER HERE,
THIS IS ANOTHER THING THAT
IS ALREADY IN PLACE.
THIS IS A PART OF A
SEQUESTER THAT WILL NOT BE
RELIEVED.
AND WHAT IT DOES IS IT CUTS
ACROSS-THE-BOARD, A 2%
REDUCTION IN PAYMENTS TO
PROVIDERS OF ALL TYPES.
HOSPITALS, NURSING HOMES.
>> Ifill: THAT WAS A PART OF
THE ORIGINAL
ACROSS-THE-BOARD CUT.
>> AND IT STAYS IN PLACE AND
IT'S TO THE GOING IT AWAY.
SO WHAT THIS AGREEMENT DOES
IS IT SAYS WE WOULD LIKE TO
CONTINUE THE SEQUESTER FOR
MEDICARE PROVIDERS FOR TWO
MORE YEARS.
AND 2022 AND 2023 T SAY HUGE
CHUNK OF MONEY.
YOU KNOW, IT'S WAY OUT IN
THE FUTURE.
THE COMPLAINT ABOUT THIS IS
IT MAY NEVER HAPPEN SO WE
MAY NEVER SEE THOSE SAVINGS.
BUT YOU KNOW, THE DANGER OF
MACKING THESE KIND OF CUTS
IS REALLY, YOU KNOW, WHETHER
DOCTORS CHOOSE NOT TO TREAT
MEDICARE PATIENTS.
>> Ifill: WELL, THE ONE
THING THAT WE KNOW IS TRUE
ABOUT ALL OF THIS IS THIS IS
MAYBE A TEMPORARY PATCH AND BE R
CHALLENGE VERY QUICKLY.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
>> OKAY, SO FIRST WE HAVE TO
PASS THE FUNDING BILLS AND
ACTUALLY KEEP THE GOVERNMENT
OPEN, YOU KNOW, PER THIS
AGREEMENT.
ON JANUARY 15th.
BUT THEN ON FEBRUARY 7th WE
HIT THE DEBT LIMIT AGAIN
BECAUSE THE LAST DEAL WE
MADE SAYS WE OPEN THE
GOVERNMENT AFTER WE SHUT IT
DOWN IN OCTOBER, WELL A
SUSPEND THE DEBT LIMIT BUT
ONLY UNTIL FEBRUARY 7th.
SO WE'VE GOT THIS NEW
POTENTIAL DEBT LIMIT
CONFLICT COMING.
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE ARE
SAYING YOU KNOW, WE REALLY
DON'T WANT A LOT OF FUSS.
IT'S AN ELECTION YEAR, WE
WOULD LIKE TO GET THROUGH
THIS EASLEY, THIS IS THE
MODEST BIPARTISAN BUDGET
COMPROMISE, THIS IS A MODEL.
MAY WE BECAN DO THIS AGAIN.
BUT YOU'VE GOT ALL THOSE
REPUBLICANS IN THE SENATE
WHO ARE FACING TEA PARTY
CHALLENGES.
AND ARE YOU STARTING TO HEAR
FROM THE SENATE, OH NO, WE
WANT TO FIGHT, WE WANT TO
CUT SPENDING AGAIN.
>> Ifill: BACK ON THE
MERRY-GO-ROUND ONCE AGAIN.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Ifill: WELL, I HOPE YOU
AND THE OTHER REPORTERS ON
CAPITOL HILL GET A LITTLE
TIME OFF FOR THE HOLIDAYS TO
PREPARE FOR THE NEXT ROUND.
>> THANK YOU, HO IPE SO TOO
OOZ LORI MONTGOMERIE OF "THE
WASHINGTON POST", THANKS.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK, NORTH
KOREA'S SUPREME LEADER, KIM JUNG
UN, JUST BEGAN HIS THIRD YEAR AS
HEAD OF ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST
ISOLATED COUNTRIES.
TODAY CHAIRMAN GENERAL
MARTIN DEMPSEY COMMENT BE ON
KIM'S EXECUTION OF HIS HIGH
RANKING UNCLE SAID THIS KIND
OF INTERNAL ACTIONS BY
DICTATORS ARE OFTEN A
PRECURSOR TO PROVOCATION.
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK
HAGEL CALLED IT CONCERNING
TO EVERYONE.
TONIGHT SENIOR FOREIGN A
FARE-- AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT
MARGARET WARNER TAKES A
CLOSER LOOK AT THE ERRATIC
30-YEAR-OLD.
>> Warner: N.B.A. HALL-OF-FAMER
DENNIS RODMAN RETURNED TO
PYONGYANG TODATO RY ENEW WHAT HE
CALLS HIS "BASKETBALL DIPLOMACY"
AND HIS CURIOUS FRIENDSHIP WITH
KIM JONG-UN, NORTH KOREA'S YOUNG
LEADER FOR THE PAST TWO YEARS
WHO REMAINS A MYSTERY TO THE
OUTSIDE WORLD.
THE VISIT COMES A WEEK AFTER KIM
STAGED A THEATRICAL AND DEADLY
POWERPLAY.
HE HAD HIS UNCLE AND PRESUMED
MENTOR, JANG SONG-THAEK,
ARRESTED IN PUBLIC, TRIED FOR
TREASON AND EXECUTED.
KIM'S SUMMARY DISPATCH OF HIS
HIGH-RANKING RELATIVE PERPLEXED
AND DISTURBED FOREIGN
GOVERNMENTS AND LONGTIME
OBSERVERS.
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY SPOKE
ON ABC LAST SUNDAY.
>> IT TELLS US A LOT ABOUT,
FIRST OF ALL, HOW RUTHLESS AND
RECKLESS HE IS.
HE IS SPONTANEOUS, ERRATIC,
STILL RRIEWOD ABOUT HIS PLACE IN
THE POWER STRUCTURE, AND
MANEUVERING TO ELIMINATE ANY
POTENTIAL ADVERSARY OR
COMPETITOR.
>> Warner: YET, ON TUESDAY, A
SMILING KIM WAS FRONT AND
CENTER, MARKING THE SECOND
ANNIVERSARY OF S COHIMING TO
POWER AFTER THE DEATH OF HIS
FATHER, "DEAR LEADER" KIM JONG-
IL.
EARLY WESTERN HOPES THAT THE
YOUNGER KIM JONG-UN MIGHT GOVERN
DIFFERENTLY HAVEN'T BEEN BORNE
OUT, SAYS JOEL WIT OF THE U.S.-
KOREA INSTITUTE.
>> ONE OF THE NARRATIVES WHEN HE
TOOK OVER WAS, BECAUSE THIS GUY
SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN EDUCATED IN
SWITZERLAND, IS YOUNGER, HE
MIGHT BE MORE LIKELY TO PURSUE
REFORM IN NORTH KOREA.
AND, OF COURSE, THAT HASN'T
PROVEN TO BE TE YERUT.
>> THE WAY HE MOVES AROUND WITH
HIS WIFE SOCIALLY, HIS INTEREST
IN THINGS LIKE BASKETBALL AND
SKI RESORTS AND AMUSEMENT PARKS.
SO, IN THAT SENSE, QUITE
DIFFERENT.
>> Warner: NORTH KOREA'S ECONOMY
IS IN DESPERATE STRAITS, YET KIM
HASN'T MOVED TOWARD THE MARKET
REFORMS EMBRACED BY HIS FELLOW
COMMUNIST NEIGHBOR, CHINA.
BUT KIM IS NOT DIFFERENT ON
ISSUES THAT MATTER, SAYS VICTOR
CHA OF THE CENTER FOR STRATEGIC
AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
>> TWO YEARS IN GOVERNMENT, NO
SIGN OF ECONOMIC REFORM, ANY
SERIOUS ECONOMIC REFORM.
>> Warner: DO YOU THINK HE'S A
SERIOUS PERSON?
>> YOU KNOW, 'S RITEALLY HARD TO
SAY.
AT LEAST, IN POLICY, DOESN'T
SEEM TO BE INTERESTED IN THE
THINGS THAT THE COUNTRY REALLY
NEEDS, WHETHER THAT'S FOOD OR
ENERGY OR HARD CURRENCY OR SOME
SORT OF ECONOMIC GROWTH.
>> Warner: WHILE MUCH IS NOT
KNOWN ABOUT KIM JONG-UN AFTER
THESE TWO YEARS, TWO TRENDS IN
HIS LEADERSHIP APPEAR CLEAR AND
WORRYING: THE INTERNAL
INSTABILITY REVEALED BY THE WAY
KIM'S UNCLE WAS PURGED AND
EXECUTED; AND NORTH KOREA'S
ONGOING BUILD-UP OF A NUCLEAR
WEAPONS ANMISSD ILE ARSENAL THAT
COULD THREATEN THE WORLD.
ON THE DAY JANG WAS KILLED, A
STATE TV NEWSCASTER RECITED A
LITANY OF SHOCKING CHARGES
AGAINST HIM.
>> ( translated ): THE ACCUSED
JANG COMMITTED HIDEOUS CRIMES,
SUCH AS ATTEMPTING TO OVERTHROW
THE STATE BY ALL SORTS OF
SABOTAGES AND DESPICABLE METHODS
WITH A WILD AMBITION TO GRAB THE
SUPREME POWER OF OUR PARTY AND
STATE.
>> THERE'S AN INCREDIBLE
ADMISSION OF INFIGHTING IN THE
COUNTRY, AND FACTIONALISM, WHICH
HAS BEEN COMPLETELY UNHEARD OF
IN NORTH KOREA.
THERE ARE TWO INCREDIBLE
ADMISSIONS FOR A COUNTRY THAT
TRIES TO KEEP A VERY PUBLIC
PROFILE OF THEM HAVING
EVERYTHING UNDER CONTROL.
>> Warner: KIM'S OSTENSIBLE
ENEMIES WEREN'T NAMED, BUT THIS
FORMER NORTH KOREAN MILITARY,
INTELLIGENCE AND WORKERS' PARTY
OFFICIAL WHO DEFECTED TO SOUTH
KOREA JUST BEFORE KIM JONG-UN
CAME TO POWER OFFERED SOME
INSIGHTS.
WE AGREED TO CONCEAL HIS
IDENTITY AND NAME.
>> ( translated ): MILITARY
OFFICERS GENERALLY WERE OUTRAGED
THAT THEY HAD TO ACCEPT KIM
JONG-UN AS THE NEW LEADER.
DO THEY THINK THE MILITARY IS
ALL STUPID?
DISCONTENT AMONG THE MILITARY
ELITES BEGAN SOON AFTER KIM
JONG-IL DEMANDED WE TRANSFER OUR
ALLEGIANCE TO HIS SON.
THE FEELING OF BETRAYAL TURNED
INTO ANGER.
>> Warner: MILITARY AND PARTY
OFFICIALS SCORNED KIM FOR HIS
INEXPERIENCE, THE DEFECTOR SAID,
AND HIS RUDENESS TO
SUBORDINATES.
>> ( translated ): HIS FATHER
HAD MORE CONFIDENCE AND SO WAS
MORE RELAXED BECAUSE HEARNE ED
THE POWER.
BUT KIM JONG-UN DID NOT HAVE THE
CHANCE TO LEARN AND PREPARE FOR
THE LEADERSHIP.
THIS IS WHY KIM JONG-UN HEAVILY
RELIES ON INTELLIGENCE OFFICE TO
CONTROL AND SPY ON HIS PEOPLE SO
TO SUPPRESS DISSENT.
>> Warner: JANG WAS THE IDEAL
TARGET, THE DEFECTOR SAID, FOR
KIM TO ELIMINATE A POTENTIAL
RIVAL AND OFFER A SCAPEGOAT FOR
TWO YEARS OF LITTLE ECONOMIC
PROGRESS.
>> ( translated ): THE RULING
ELITES BECAME VERY DISAPPOINTED
AT THE NEW LEADER, AND THE
DISSENT BEGAN TO SET IN.
JANG SONG THAEK PERFECTLY FIT
FOR THE BILL AS THE SCAPEGOAT.
EVERYTHING CAN BE BLAMED ON HIM
AND SPARE KIM FROM CRITICISM FOR
NOT DELIVERING THE POWERFUL
NATION HE PROMISED.
>> Warner: VICTOR CHA FOUND THE
WHOLE EPISODE UNNERVING.
>> INSTABILITY IN NORTH KOREA
WOULD BE PROBABLY ONE OF AMERICA
AND THE REGION'S WORST
NIGHTMARES, BECAUSE WE DON'T
HAVE ANY SENSE OF HOW THINGS
PROGRESS OR HAPPEN INSIDE THE
REGIME, BECAUSE THEY DO HAVE A
STASH OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND
FISSILE MATERIAL.
I THINK IT WOULD BE A BIG
CONCERN IF THERE WERE SOME SORT
OF INSTABILITY INSIDE THE
COUNTRY.
>> Warner: KIM JONG-UN HAS
CONTINUED HIS FATHER'S NUCLEAR
AND MISSILE PROGRAMS, FOLLOWING
THE WARHEAD TESTS OF 2006 AND
2009 WITH ONE OF HIS OWN THIS
PAST FEBRUARY.
IT'S ESTIMATED THAT NORTH KOREA
HAS BETWEEN SIX AND NINE NUCLEAR
WARHEADS
>> THOSE PROGRAMS HAVE A LOT OF
MOMENTUM BEHIND THEM.
>> Warner: WHAT ABOUT
PROLIFERATION?
>> RIGHT NOW, WE DON'T SEE ANY
SIGNS OF IT, BUT WHAT I WOULD
ARGUE IS, AS THEIR STOCKPILE
GROWS OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS, AS
THEIR MISSILE CAPABILITIES GROW,
THE CHANCES THAT THEY'LL BE
EXPORTING THE KINDS OF
TECHNOLOGIES WE DON'T WANT THEM
TO EXPORT WILL GROW ALSO.
>> Warner: VICTOR CHA SAYS THE
NORTH'S MISSILE PROGRAM IS A
PARTICULAR DANGER.
WOULD YOU
SAY NORTH KOREA NOW WHEN YOU
TALK ABOUT MISSILE CAPABLE
IS MORE OR LESS THREATENING
THAN IT WAS TWO OR THREE
YEARS AGO.
>> IT'S CERTAINLY MORE
THREATENING.
THE LAST MAJOR TEST
THEY DID WAS SUCCESSFUL IN TERMS
OF PUTTING A PAYLOAD VEHICLE
INTO ORBIT, WHICH IS SOMETHING
THAT THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING FOR
YEARS TO DO AND HAVE NOT BEEN
CAPABLE OF.
THAT IS A VERY IMPORTANT STEP IN
TERMS OF DEVELOPING INDIGENOUS
LONG-RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE
TECHNOLOGY WITH WHICH THEY CAN
TARGET THE UNITED STATES.
SECRETARY GATES TWO YEARS AGO
SAID THAT HE BELIEVED NORTH
KOREA COULD POSE A THREAT TO THE
U.S. HOMELAND WITHIN FIVE YEARS,
SO THAT IS WITHIN THE TERM OF
THIS PRESIDENT.
SO, I THINK THERE'S GOOD CAUSE
TO BE CONCERNED.
>> Warner: ALL THIS HAS CAUSED
DEEP WORRY IN NEIGHBORING SOUTH
KOREA AMONG THE PUBLIC.
>> ( translated ): KIM JONG-UN
WAS EDUCATED IN EUROPE, SO I
THOUGHT HE COULD BE MORE OPEN,
MORE FLEXIBLE.
BUT HE'S WORSE THAN HIS FATHER,
AND SO I'M VERY DISAPPOINTED.
HE'S REALLY CRUEL.
>> ( translated ): LOOKING AT
THE WAY HE'S KILLED HIS UNCLE,
I THINK HE'S NOT JUST BLUFFING.
MANY OF MY FRIENDS ARE IN THE
ARMY, AND WHEN I TALK TO THEM,
THEY TELL ME HOW SCARED THEY
ARE.
THEY TALK ABOUT THERE COULD BE
WAR ANYTIME.
SO, IT DOES SCARE ME.
>> Warner: AND IT ALSO ALARMS
THOSE IN GOVERNMENT.
AFTER THE UNCLE'S KILLING, NEW
SOUTH KOREAN PRESIDENT PARK
GYUN-HYE WARNED OF THE DANGER OF
A NEW PROVOCATION FROM THE
NORTH.
>> ( translated ): WE CANNOT
RULE OUT EMERGENCIES SUCH AS
RECKLESS PROVOCATIONS.
CONSIDERING THE GRAVITY AND
UNPREDICTABILITY OF THE CURRENT
SITUATION, THE GOVERNMENT, ARMY
AND CIVILIANS, THE ENTIRE NATION
SHOULD BE THOROUGHLY PREPARED.
>> Warner: PRACTICING THE SORT
OF VIGILANCE THE SOUTH HAS BEEN
FORCED TO MAINTAIN FOR DECADES.
AND WITH THIS NEW, UNTESTED
LEADER TO THE NORTH, THERE'S NO
END IN SIGHT.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, MORE
FALLOUT FROM THE DETROIT
BANKRUPTCY STORY.
RESIDENTS NOW FACE THE PROSPECT
OF LOSING ART MASTERPIECES OWNED
BY THE CITY ITSELF.
JEFFREY BROWN FILLS IN THE
PICTURE.
>> Brown: IT'S ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S GREAT MUSEUMS NOW IN A
MOST UNUSUAL AND POTENTIALLY
DIRE SITUATION.
THE
BUILDING AND SEVERAL
THOUSAND WORKS OF HART
IN-- ART IN THE COLLECTION
OF THE DETROIT INSTITUTE OF
THE ART ARE OWNED BY THE
CITY AND THE AT THIS MANAGER
OVERSEEING THE BANKRUPTCY
HAS SAID IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
SOME THOSE WORKS COULD BE
SOLD TO PAY OFF CREDITORS.
OUR COLLEAGUE'S AT DETROIT
PUBLIC TELEVISION PRODUCED A
DOCUMENTARY ABOUT THE MUSEUM
AND ITS MIGHT IN THIS
EXCERPT MUSEUM DIRECTORS
ARGUE AGAINST SUCH A MOVE.
>> WE WERE THE FIRST ART MUSEUM
IN AMERICA TO ACQUIRE A VAN GOGH
IN 1920.
WE WERE THE FIRST ART MUSEUM TO
ACQUIRE A MATISSE IN 1922.
WE HAVE THE FINEST COLLECTION OF
ITALIAN SCULPTURE IN THE WESTERN
HEMISPHERE.
WE'RE STILL THE ONLY MAJOR ART
MUSEUM TO HAVE A DEPARTMENT OF
AFRICAN AMERICAN ART.
THE ARGUMENT MORE TENDS TO BE,
"WELL, YOU'VE GOT FOUR VAN
GOGHS, WHY DON'T YOU JUST SELL
ONE OF THOSE BECAUSE YOU'LL
STILL HAVE THREE?"
IT'S A TOTAL FAILURE OF PUBLIC
TRUST TO DO THAT.
IT'S THE MOST DAMNING ADMISSION
OF FAILURE.
THERE'S NO PRECEDENT OF A CITY
SELLING A COLLECTION IN THAT
WAY.
THERE WOULD BE THE ARGUMENT FROM
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL THAT YOU
CAN'T SELL THAT STUFF.
IT DOESN'T BELONG TO THE CITY
THE WAY THAT A FIRE ENGINE DOES.
IT BELONGS TO THE PUBLIC.
THAT'S WHY IT WAS GIVEN, WHY
WORKS OF ART WAS GIVEN.
WE'RE GOING TO STOP YOU FROM
DOING IT.
>> IMAGINE A FACILITY LIKE THE
D.I.A. THAT EMBRACES AND
CELEBRATES EUROPEAN ART AND
AFRICAN AMERICAN ART AND LATIN
OR HISPANIC ART AND ASIAN ART
AND ARAB-AMERICAN ART.
THAT'S THE UNIQUENESS OF THE
AMERICAN EXPERIENCE, AND THE
FACT THAT EVERYBODY'S HERE AND
EVERYBODY'S WELCOME.
>> THESE ARE THINGS YOU CAN'T
BUY NOWADAYS
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THEM, YOU
CAN'T BUY THEM.
>> Brown: JUST TODAY, CHRISTIE'S
COMPLETED ITS REPORT FOR CITY
MANAGER KEVIN ORR ON SOME 2,800
CITY-OWNED ARTWORKS, SETTING A
VALUE FOR THEM AT BETWEEN $450
MILLION AND $870 MILLION.
THE AUCTION HOUSE ALSO PRESENTED
ORR WITH SEVERAL OTHER OPTIONS
THAT COULD AVOID SELLING THE
WORK.
MARK STRYKER COVERS THE ARTS FOR
THE DETROIT FREE PRESS AND JOINS
US NOW.
MARK, WE JUST HEARD SOME OF
THE ARGUMENTS AGAINST
SELLING THE ART.
HOW MUCH PRESSURE IS THERE
TO AT LEAST LOOK AT SELLING
SOME OF IT, AND WHERE IS IT
COMING FROM?
>> WELL, THERE'S
EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT OF
PRESSURE TO LOOK AT SELLING
THE ART.
THE FACT IS THE CITY DOES
OWN THE ART, WHICH IS
UNUSUAL.
MOST CIVIC MUSEUMS ARE NOT
LITERALLY OWNED BY THE CITY.
THEY'RE INDEPENDENT
NONPROFITS.
BUT HERE THE COLLECTION IS
OWNED BY THE CITY.
AND THAT MAKES IT A CITY
ASSET WHICH MEANS IN
BANKRUPTCY IT'S VULNERABLE
TO SALE.
AND YOU HAVE CREDITORS,
INCLUDING CITY PENSIONERS
AND RETIREES WHO ARE PUSHING
FOR A SALE AS WELL AS
BONDHOLDERS TO RECOVER MORE
OF THEIR LOSSES.
KEVIN ORR, THE EMERGENCY
MANAGER HAS BEEN CHARGED
WITH RESTRUCTURING THE CITY
FINANCES.
HE HAS TO FIND MONEY.
THERE'S A BIG POOL OF IT AT
THE DIA.
HE NEEDS TO PUT TOGETHER A
PLAN THAT CREDITORS WILL
ACCEPT AND THAT THE JUDGE IN
THE BANKRUPTCY COURT WILL
APPROVE.
AND HE DOESN'T THINK CAN DO
IT WITHOUT MONETIZING THE
ART IN SOME WAY.
AND SO HE'S ESSENTIALLY TOLD
THE MUSEUM HE WANTS $500
MILLION FROM THEM, HOWEVER
HE CAN GET IT WHETHER
SELLING OR SOME OTHER
MECHANISM.
>> Pirro: WELL, SO CRISTIES
TOOK A LOOK AT SOME OF THE
WORK, RIGHT, JUST A VERY
SMALL PERCENTAGE OF THE
ACTUALOLL CECTION.
TELL US WHAT THEY FOUND.
>> WELL, CRISTIES LOOKED AT
ABOUT 5% OF THE TOTAL
COLLECTION OF THOSE 66,000
ROUGHLY WORKS, SO WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT 2800 WORKS.
THESE WERE WORKINGS THAT
WERE BOUGHT DIRECTLY BY THE
CITY.
MOSTLY IN THE 1920s WHEN THE
CITY WAS FLUSH WITH AUTO
CASH.
AND WHAT THEY FOUND WAS AS
MUCH AS ALMOST 900 MILLION
DOLLARS WORTH OF ART.
MOST OF THE VALUE IS
INCLUDED IN 11 REALLY STAND
OUT SIGNATURE WORKS IN THE
MUSEUM, THESE ARE THINGS
LIKE THE WEDDING DANCE,
VALUED AT 100 MILLION TO 200
MILLION, AND VAN GOGH'S
REMARKABLE SELF-PORTRAIT
WHICH WAS VALUED SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN 80 MILLION AND 150
MILLION.
THE MATISSE, THE WINDOW, A
REMBRANDT PAINTING, AN
EXTRAORDINARY MICHELANGELO
DRAWING, DEGAS, MONET AND
THE LIKE, THESE ARE AMONG
THE TOP WORKS.
THEY VALUATED, ESSENTIALLY
THEY GAVE, IN THE REPORT,
LINE ITEM INDIVIDUAL VALUES
FOR EVERYTHING IN THE MUSEUM
THAT WAS CITY BOUGHT, OVER
50-- WORTH MORE THAN
$50,000.
>> Brown: AND CRISTIES, I
SAW ALSO, AS HAVE OTHERS IN
RECENT MONTHS, OFFERED SOME
ALTERNATIVES, I GUESS, FOR
WHAT COULD TAKE PLACE.
WHAT ELSE IS ON THE TABLE AS
POSSIBILITIES?
>> WELL, THE MOST FREQUENTLY
CITED KIND OF ALTERNATIVES
FOR SALE ARE THINGS LIKE
USING THE ART AS COLLATERAL
FOR LOANS.
TRYING TO RENT PARTS OF THE
COLLECTION.
TRYING TO MAYBE SOME SORT OF
A SCHEME WHERE WEALTHY
PATRONS WOULD BUY THE ART
AND THEN LOAN IT BACK TO THE
CITY, RATHER LOAN IT BACK TO
THE MUSEUM.
ALL OF THESE THINGS, THOUGH,
THE MUSEUM WOULD ARGUE, AND
MUCH OF OUR REPORTING,
FRANKLY, WITH THE FREE PRESS
IS BORNE OUT THAT ALL OF
THESE KINDS OF THINGS WITH
WOULD STILL LEAVE THE ART
VULNERABLE TO SALE.
IT WOULD STILL PUT IN
JEOPARDY THE COLLECTION.
IT WOULDN'T RAISE NEARLY THE
KIND OF MONEY THAT PEOPLE
THINK IT MIGHT.
AND ONE OF THE MOST
IMPORTANT FACTORS HERE IN
DETROIT IS THAT THERE IS A
TRICOUNTY TAX MILLAGE,
PROPERTY TAX THAT FUNDS THE
MUSEUM.
AND RIGHT NOW ACCOUNTS FOR
ABOUT 70% OF THE MUSEUM'S
BUDGET.
AND IF THERE IS ANY ART SOLD
OR A MOVE TO MONETIZE IN ANY
WAY, THE COUNTIES HAVE SAID
THEY WOULD REPEAL THE TAX.
AND THAT EFFECTIVELY COULD
SHUTTER THE MUSEUM.
SO IT'S A VERY DELICATE,
VERY DIFFICULT SITUATION.
>> Brown: NOW I KNOW THAT
ALL OF THIS HAS THE MUSEUM
WORLD, AND I MEAN OUTSIDE
DETROIT, IN A STATE OF
OUTRAGE OVER THE
POSSIBILITY.
HOW MUCH PRESSURE IS, FROM
THE OUTSIDE IS BEING FELT IN
THE CITY.
AND WHAT KIND OF RESPONSE IS
THERE?
>> WELL, THE PRESSURE
OUTSIDE IS NOT NEARLY, I
THINK, THE ISSUE AS THE
PRESSURE INSIDE.
I MEAN THE FACT IS THAT THE
EMERGENCY MANAGER NEEDS TO
GET A DEAL.
AND HE HAS TO PUT TOGETHER A
PLAN THAT THE JUDGE WILL
APPROVE.
THE EMERGENCY MANAGER BY THE
WAY IN THIS CASE IS THE ONLY
ONE WHO CAN SELL ART.
THE JUDGE NEITHER IN A
MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY,
NEITHER THE JUDGE NOR THE
CREDITORS CAN LITERALLY
FORCE THE SALE.
BUT THEY CAN PUT PRESSURE ON
OR TO MONETIZE THE ART, THEY
CAN PUT PRESSURE ON THE
JUDGE TO DENY A PLAN IF THEY
THINK IT'S NOT FAIR.
AND THEN AMONG THE CITY
RESIDENTS, YOU KNOW, YOU
HAVE DIFFERENT FACTIONS,
THERE IS A GREAT OUTPOURING
OF SPORT FOR THE MUSEUM.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, THERE
ARE FOLKS PARTICULARLY CITY
PENSIONERS WHO REPRESENT
MAYBE 20,000 OR SO OF THE
700,000 PEOPLE IN THE CITY.
AND THOSE PENSIONS FOR THOSE
RETIREES AND MUNICIPAL FIRE
AND POLICE ARE AT RISK.
AND PEOPLE THINK THAT IF IT
COMES TO ART OR PENSIONS,
YOU SHOULD GO WITH PENSIONS.
>> Brown: AND JUST IN A WORD
OR TWO IN OUR LAST SECONDS,
DO WE KNOW WHEN A DECISION
WILL BE MADE OR SOME KIND OF
DEAL MADE?
>> WELL, THERE ARE TWO
THINGS.
ONE, THE EMERGENCY MANAGER
SAID HE WANTS TO HAVE A PLAN
IN PLACE, OR SUBMIT A PLAN
BY EARLY JANUARY.
AT THE SAME TIME WE HAVE A
SIDE MEDIATION GOING ON WITH
MEMBERS OF NATIONAL LOCAL
FOUNDATIONS TRYING TO RAISE
MONEY FOR THE MUSEUM THAT
MIGHT CREATE A WAY OUT WHERE
THE FOUNDATIONS WOULD PUT UP
AS MUCH AS 500 MILLION
DOLLARS, IT WOULD GO TO
PENSIONS.
AND THAT WOULD TAKE THE ART
OFF THE TABLE.
>> Brown: MARK STRYKER OF
THE "DETROIT FREE PRESS",
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
GOOD TO BE WI YOTHU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE TARGET RETAIL CHAIN
CONFIRMED THAT UP TO 40 MILLION
CREDIT AND DEBIT CARD ACCOUNTS
HAVE BEEN COMPROMISED BY A DATA
BREACH.
AND RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN ANNOUNCED HE'LL PARDON OIL
TYCOON MIKHAIL KHODORKOVSKY,
WHO'S BEEN JAILED ON CORRUPTION
CHARGES FOR MORE THAN A DECADE.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, WE TOLD YOU
ABOUT HOW ONE SCHOOL IN METRO
DETROIT TURNED HOMEWORK ON ITS
HEAD WITH "FLIPPED" CLASSROOM
INSTRUCTION.
NOW YOU GET TO WEIGH IN.
COULD THIS NEW TEACHING
TECHNIQUE WORK IN YOUR CHILD'S
SCHOOL?
JOIN US TOMORROW FOR A TWITTER
CHAT ON THE TOC.PI
THE DETAILS ARE ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
AND IT TURNS OUT THAT "LORD OF
THE RINGS" AUTHOR J.R.R. TOLKIEN
WAS QUITE THE CLIMATOLOGIST.
READ ABOUT RESEARCH THAT
ACCURATELY MODELS MIDDLE EARTH'S
MYTHICAL CLIMATE.
THAT'S ON OUR "SCIENCE" PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND TS
ON FRIDAY, WE LOOK BACK AT WHAT
CONGRESS DID AND, IN MANY CASES,
DIDN'T DO THIS YEAR.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.